# How to Create a New User in the Content AWS Account

Important preamble: We should only create news users in the Content AWS Account when a new team member joins the Cloud Content team, or when another individual needs access to the Content AWS Account for approved development reasons. Approval *must* be received from the team manager and/or team lead before creating a new user.

To create a new user:

1. In the AWS IAM console, go to the [Users page](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?region=us-east-1#/users) (restricted link) and click `Create user` in the upper right.
2. Under `Step 1: Specify user details`:
   1. Enter a `User Name`, which should match their Rover profile `USER ID`
   2. Check `Provide user access to the AWS Management Console - optional`
   3. Select `Autogenerated password`
   4. Make sure `Users must create a new password at next sign-in - Recommended` is checked
   5. Click `Next`
3. Under `Step 2: Set permissions`:
   1. Select `Add user to group`
   2. What groups people get depends on what team they're on. Cloud Content team members should have `all_privs` and `CloudContentTeam` checked
   3. Click `Next`
4. Under `Step 3: Review and create`:
   1. Verify that the user details and permissions summary are correct
   2. Click `Next`
5. On the `Retrieve password` page:
   1. Do not download, email, or slack the credentials. Copy them from the console into a [Bitwarden Send](https://bitwarden.com/learning/bitwarden-send/) note, set a 7 day expiration on the note, and send the note to the new team member's Red Hat email address. That will ensure the credentials remain encrypted and in one place.
6. After sending the credentials via Bitwarden, send the team member the following information in Slack:

   With create power comes great responsibility. Due to the nature of the cloud team's work, you have full admin rights to our AWS dev account. Please don't delete or create other users. Please review and follow our [AWS resource tagging guidelines](https://handbook.eng.ansible.com/docs/Content/AWS_Resource_Tagging_Policy) (restricted link). The [Best Practices for Development on AWS](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nEWmYzyvN8-wpfjEMfM3s7QN3T14WUD6f7VnEAPS7xY/edit?tab=t.0) (restricted link) document should cover how to manage your credentials on your laptop. If you ever commit any credential to any repo by accident please immediately report a security incident to [InfoSec](https://source.redhat.com/departments/operations/it-information-security) (restricted link) and they will help you resolve the situation. Github and AWS both actively scan Github for things that look like credentials so if you don't realize it's happened we'll still get notified, but if you do notice it's best to act ASAP. You will not get in any trouble for proactively notifying InfoSec of a possible credential exposure.

7. Verify with the team member on Slack that they received the note and were able to log in and change their password.
